README.md, before:

# Development-of-Novel-Quantum-Algorithms
Womanium Quantum+AI 2024 Projects

**Please review the participation guidelines [here](https://github.com/womanium-quantum/Quantum-AI-2024) before starting the project.**

_**Do NOT delete/ edit the format of this read.me file.**_

_**Include all necessary information only as per the given format.**_

## Project Information:

### Team Size:
  - Maximum team size = 3
  - While individual participation is also welcome, we highly recommend team participation :)

### Eligibility:
  - All nationalities, genders, and age groups are welcome to participate in the projects.
  - All team participants must be enrolled in Womanium Quantum+AI 2024.
  - Everyone is eligible to participate in this project and win Womanium grants.
  - All successful project submissions earn the Womanium Project Certificate.
  - Best participants win Womanium QSL fellowships with Classiq. Please review the eligibility criteria for QSL fellowships in the project description below.

### Project Description:
  - Click [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1PGNUShboB4ik_JHZGcIPTh3KYi-aajzp/view?usp=sharing) to view the project description.

## Project Submission:
All information in this section will be considered for project submission and judging.

Ensure your repository is public and submitted by **August 9, 2024, 23:59pm US ET**.

Ensure your repository does not contain any personal or team tokens/access information to access backends. Ensure your repository does not contain any third-party intellectual property (logos, company names, copied literature, or code). Any resources used must be open source or appropriately referenced.


### Team Information:
Team Member 1:
 - Mohammadreza Khellat: 
 - Womanium Program Enrollment ID (see Welcome Email, format- WQ24-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx): WQ24-fvfEVepBZ3Z5pnp


Team Member 2:
 - Omid Abbasi: 
 - Womanium Program Enrollment ID (see Welcome Email, format- WQ24-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx): WQ24-swBRhj7onRJZfRj



### Project Solution:
_Include a comprehensive summary of all important information about your project solution here._
All necessary code files and any additional information required to judge your project solution should be included in the repository.

The Quantum algorithm for the Hamiltonian simulation of a 1-dimensional
classical system of $N$ coupled oscillators have been thoroughly
reviewed.

In the end, our strategy for the deployment of the simulation in
Classiq has been to prepare a simple encoding, represent the
Hamiltonian as a matrix, and evolve it using the Suzuki Trotter.

We encountered an issue with Suzuki Trotter `qbv` parameter
reported at [commit
ac68f1db23ddece86e25c6d2ed0f86d0369940ea](https://github.com/womanium-quantum/Development-of-Novel-Quantum-Algorithms/commit/ac68f1db23ddece86e25c6d2ed0f86d0369940ea). A
closer study of the issue hinted us towards modifying the function
`matrix_to_pauli_terms(matrix)` to make sure that no redundant identity
Pauli terms are added to the operator and the size of our Hamiltonian
operator is not unnecessarily increased.

### Project Presentation Deck:
_Upload/ Link a 3min. presentation deck here._

See project presentation guidelines [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/13nWF8AxFAfFYTWEYPT3BpPdYkqtxxSAjmuXj_zcMh-E/edit?usp=sharing)

Commit message:

Task 1 case N=2 revised
With this commit, we used the beta version of a new Pauli terms
decomposition for N=2.

In the next commit, that code would be provided for the scaled up case
N=4.

README.md, after:

# Development-of-Novel-Quantum-Algorithms
Womanium Quantum+AI 2024 Projects

**Please review the participation guidelines [here](https://github.com/womanium-quantum/Quantum-AI-2024) before starting the project.**

_**Do NOT delete/ edit the format of this read.me file.**_

_**Include all necessary information only as per the given format.**_

## Project Information:

### Team Size:
  - Maximum team size = 3
  - While individual participation is also welcome, we highly recommend team participation :)

### Eligibility:
  - All nationalities, genders, and age groups are welcome to participate in the projects.
  - All team participants must be enrolled in Womanium Quantum+AI 2024.
  - Everyone is eligible to participate in this project and win Womanium grants.
  - All successful project submissions earn the Womanium Project Certificate.
  - Best participants win Womanium QSL fellowships with Classiq. Please review the eligibility criteria for QSL fellowships in the project description below.

### Project Description:
  - Click [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1PGNUShboB4ik_JHZGcIPTh3KYi-aajzp/view?usp=sharing) to view the project description.

## Project Submission:
All information in this section will be considered for project submission and judging.

Ensure your repository is public and submitted by **August 9, 2024, 23:59pm US ET**.

Ensure your repository does not contain any personal or team tokens/access information to access backends. Ensure your repository does not contain any third-party intellectual property (logos, company names, copied literature, or code). Any resources used must be open source or appropriately referenced.


### Team Information:
Team Member 1:
 - Mohammadreza Khellat: 
 - Womanium Program Enrollment ID (see Welcome Email, format- WQ24-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx): WQ24-fvfEVepBZ3Z5pnp


Team Member 2:
 - Omid Abbasi: 
 - Womanium Program Enrollment ID (see Welcome Email, format- WQ24-xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx): WQ24-swBRhj7onRJZfRj



### Project Solution:
_Include a comprehensive summary of all important information about your project solution here._
All necessary code files and any additional information required to judge your project solution should be included in the repository.

The Quantum algorithm for the Hamiltonian simulation of a 1-dimensional
classical system of $N$ coupled oscillators have been thoroughly
reviewed.

In the end, our strategy for the deployment of the simulation in
Classiq has been to prepare a simple encoding, represent the
Hamiltonian as a matrix, and evolve it using the Suzuki Trotter.

Another important and now fixed issue is the decomposition of the
Hamiltonian matrix in Pauli terms. In the end, it was decided to use
$I, X, Z$ as the bases for the decomposition as it seems that
`PauliTerm` induces an `unknown error` during program synthesis when
complex or imaginary coefficients are provides as its argument.

### Project Presentation Deck:
_Upload/ Link a 3min. presentation deck here._

See project presentation guidelines [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/13nWF8AxFAfFYTWEYPT3BpPdYkqtxxSAjmuXj_zcMh-E/edit?usp=sharing)
